docs/rest-api.md, before:

# REST API Usage

## Configuration

Enable the rest API by adding the api_server section to your configuration and setting `api_server.enabled` to `true`.

Sample configuration:

``` json
    "api_server": {
        "enabled": true,
        "listen_ip_address": "127.0.0.1",
        "listen_port": 8080,
        "username": "Freqtrader",
        "password": "SuperSecret1!"
    },
```

!!! Danger: Security warning
  By default, the configuration listens on localhost only (so it's not reachable from other systems). We strongly recommend to not expose this API to the internet and choose a strong, unique password, since others will potentially be able to control your bot.

!!! Danger: Password selection
  Please make sure to select a very strong, unique password to protect your bot from unauthorized access.

You can then access the API by going to `http://127.0.0.1:8080/api/v1/version` to check if the API is running correctly.

### Configuration with docker

If you run your bot using docker, you'll need to have the bot listen to incomming connections. The security is then handled by docker.

``` json
    "api_server": {
        "enabled": true,
        "listen_ip_address": "0.0.0.0",
        "listen_port": 8080
    },
```

Add the following to your docker command:

``` bash
  -p 127.0.0.1:8080:8080
```

A complete sample-command may then look as follows:

```bash
docker run -d \
  --name freqtrade \
  -v ~/.freqtrade/config.json:/freqtrade/config.json \
  -v ~/.freqtrade/user_data/:/freqtrade/user_data \
  -v ~/.freqtrade/tradesv3.sqlite:/freqtrade/tradesv3.sqlite \
  -p 127.0.0.1:8080:8080 \
  freqtrade --db-url sqlite:///tradesv3.sqlite --strategy MyAwesomeStrategy
```

!!! Danger "Security warning"
  By using `-p 8080:8080` the API is available to everyone connecting to the server under the correct port, so others may be able to control your bot.

## Consuming the API

You can consume the API by using the script `scripts/rest_client.py`.
The client script only requires the `requests` module, so FreqTrade does not need to be installed on the system.

``` bash
python3 scripts/rest_client.py <command> [optional parameters]
```

By default, the script assumes `127.0.0.1` (localhost) and port `8080` to be used, however you can specify a configuration file to override this behaviour.

### Minimalistic client config

``` json
{
    "api_server": {
        "enabled": true,
        "listen_ip_address": "0.0.0.0",
        "listen_port": 8080
    }
}
```

``` bash
python3 scripts/rest_client.py --config rest_config.json <command> [optional parameters]
```

## Available commands

|  Command | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `start` | | Starts the trader
| `stop` | | Stops the trader
| `stopbuy` | | Stops the trader from opening new trades. Gracefully closes open trades according to their rules.
| `reload_conf` | | Reloads the configuration file
| `status` | | Lists all open trades
| `status table` | | List all open trades in a table format
| `count` | | Displays number of trades used and available
| `profit` | | Display a summary of your profit/loss from close trades and some stats about your performance
| `forcesell <trade_id>` | | Instantly sells the given trade  (Ignoring `minimum_roi`).
| `forcesell all` | | Instantly sells all open trades (Ignoring `minimum_roi`).
| `forcebuy <pair> [rate]` | | Instantly buys the given pair. Rate is optional. (`forcebuy_enable` must be set to True)
| `performance` | | Show performance of each finished trade grouped by pair
| `balance` | | Show account balance per currency
| `daily <n>` | 7 | Shows profit or loss per day, over the last n days
| `whitelist` | | Show the current whitelist
| `blacklist [pair]` | | Show the current blacklist, or adds a pair to the blacklist.
| `edge` | | Show validated pairs by Edge if it is enabled.
| `version` | | Show version

Possible commands can be listed from the rest-client script using the `help` command.

``` bash
python3 scripts/rest_client.py help
```

``` output
Possible commands:
balance
        Get the account balance
        :returns: json object

blacklist
        Show the current blacklist
        :param add: List of coins to add (example: "BNB/BTC")
        :returns: json object

count
        Returns the amount of open trades
        :returns: json object

daily
        Returns the amount of open trades
        :returns: json object

edge
        Returns information about edge
        :returns: json object

forcebuy
        Buy an asset
        :param pair: Pair to buy (ETH/BTC)
        :param price: Optional - price to buy
        :returns: json object of the trade

forcesell
        Force-sell a trade
        :param tradeid: Id of the trade (can be received via status command)
        :returns: json object

performance
        Returns the performance of the different coins
        :returns: json object

profit
        Returns the profit summary
        :returns: json object

reload_conf
        Reload configuration
        :returns: json object

start
        Start the bot if it's in stopped state.
        :returns: json object

status
        Get the status of open trades
        :returns: json object

stop
        Stop the bot. Use start to restart
        :returns: json object

stopbuy
        Stop buying (but handle sells gracefully).
        use reload_conf to reset
        :returns: json object

version
        Returns the version of the bot
        :returns: json object containing the version

whitelist
        Show the current whitelist
        :returns: json object
```

Commit message:

Add secure way to genreate password, warn if no password is defined

docs/rest-api.md, after:

# REST API Usage

## Configuration

Enable the rest API by adding the api_server section to your configuration and setting `api_server.enabled` to `true`.

Sample configuration:

``` json
    "api_server": {
        "enabled": true,
        "listen_ip_address": "127.0.0.1",
        "listen_port": 8080,
        "username": "Freqtrader",
        "password": "SuperSecret1!"
    },
```

!!! Danger: Security warning
  By default, the configuration listens on localhost only (so it's not reachable from other systems). We strongly recommend to not expose this API to the internet and choose a strong, unique password, since others will potentially be able to control your bot.

!!! Danger: Password selection
  Please make sure to select a very strong, unique password to protect your bot from unauthorized access.

You can then access the API by going to `http://127.0.0.1:8080/api/v1/version` to check if the API is running correctly.

To generate a secure password, either use a password manager, or use the below code snipped.

``` python
import secrets
secrets.token_hex()
```

### Configuration with docker

If you run your bot using docker, you'll need to have the bot listen to incomming connections. The security is then handled by docker.

``` json
    "api_server": {
        "enabled": true,
        "listen_ip_address": "0.0.0.0",
        "listen_port": 8080
    },
```

Add the following to your docker command:

``` bash
  -p 127.0.0.1:8080:8080
```

A complete sample-command may then look as follows:

```bash
docker run -d \
  --name freqtrade \
  -v ~/.freqtrade/config.json:/freqtrade/config.json \
  -v ~/.freqtrade/user_data/:/freqtrade/user_data \
  -v ~/.freqtrade/tradesv3.sqlite:/freqtrade/tradesv3.sqlite \
  -p 127.0.0.1:8080:8080 \
  freqtrade --db-url sqlite:///tradesv3.sqlite --strategy MyAwesomeStrategy
```

!!! Danger "Security warning"
  By using `-p 8080:8080` the API is available to everyone connecting to the server under the correct port, so others may be able to control your bot.

## Consuming the API

You can consume the API by using the script `scripts/rest_client.py`.
The client script only requires the `requests` module, so FreqTrade does not need to be installed on the system.

``` bash
python3 scripts/rest_client.py <command> [optional parameters]
```

By default, the script assumes `127.0.0.1` (localhost) and port `8080` to be used, however you can specify a configuration file to override this behaviour.

### Minimalistic client config

``` json
{
    "api_server": {
        "enabled": true,
        "listen_ip_address": "0.0.0.0",
        "listen_port": 8080
    }
}
```

``` bash
python3 scripts/rest_client.py --config rest_config.json <command> [optional parameters]
```

## Available commands

|  Command | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `start` | | Starts the trader
| `stop` | | Stops the trader
| `stopbuy` | | Stops the trader from opening new trades. Gracefully closes open trades according to their rules.
| `reload_conf` | | Reloads the configuration file
| `status` | | Lists all open trades
| `status table` | | List all open trades in a table format
| `count` | | Displays number of trades used and available
| `profit` | | Display a summary of your profit/loss from close trades and some stats about your performance
| `forcesell <trade_id>` | | Instantly sells the given trade  (Ignoring `minimum_roi`).
| `forcesell all` | | Instantly sells all open trades (Ignoring `minimum_roi`).
| `forcebuy <pair> [rate]` | | Instantly buys the given pair. Rate is optional. (`forcebuy_enable` must be set to True)
| `performance` | | Show performance of each finished trade grouped by pair
| `balance` | | Show account balance per currency
| `daily <n>` | 7 | Shows profit or loss per day, over the last n days
| `whitelist` | | Show the current whitelist
| `blacklist [pair]` | | Show the current blacklist, or adds a pair to the blacklist.
| `edge` | | Show validated pairs by Edge if it is enabled.
| `version` | | Show version

Possible commands can be listed from the rest-client script using the `help` command.

``` bash
python3 scripts/rest_client.py help
```

``` output
Possible commands:
balance
        Get the account balance
        :returns: json object

blacklist
        Show the current blacklist
        :param add: List of coins to add (example: "BNB/BTC")
        :returns: json object

count
        Returns the amount of open trades
        :returns: json object

daily
        Returns the amount of open trades
        :returns: json object

edge
        Returns information about edge
        :returns: json object

forcebuy
        Buy an asset
        :param pair: Pair to buy (ETH/BTC)
        :param price: Optional - price to buy
        :returns: json object of the trade

forcesell
        Force-sell a trade
        :param tradeid: Id of the trade (can be received via status command)
        :returns: json object

performance
        Returns the performance of the different coins
        :returns: json object

profit
        Returns the profit summary
        :returns: json object

reload_conf
        Reload configuration
        :returns: json object

start
        Start the bot if it's in stopped state.
        :returns: json object

status
        Get the status of open trades
        :returns: json object

stop
        Stop the bot. Use start to restart
        :returns: json object

stopbuy
        Stop buying (but handle sells gracefully).
        use reload_conf to reset
        :returns: json object

version
        Returns the version of the bot
        :returns: json object containing the version

whitelist
        Show the current whitelist
        :returns: json object
```
